#summary Ideas for improving the project.
#labels Lang-En
#sidebar En
<wiki:comment>revision: 1 </wiki:comment>

On this page we discuss new ideas for phpDays. Post your ideas below in comments.

=== Models with data checking ===

I am learning the  Python language and its Django framework. I am also learning about the Google App Engine.

I like its models very much. We do nott create a database and do not describe a database in files. We create model classes with field descriptions. At launch, our application generates a database structure and then uses it. Very simple to use!

For example, to create a model class:
{{{
class App_Model_User extends Days_Model {
  protected $_id = self::intField()->positive();
  protected $_name = self::stringField()->maxLen(200);
  protected $_age = self::intField()->max(70)->mix(18);
}
}}}

The base class `Days_Model` implements base methods for different field types.

Also the database structure is generated from this file (using reflection).

=== Validator ===

[EnLibDaysValidate Days_Validate] - check a variable by criteria and return `true` only if its value is valid.

{{{
$age = 21;
$mail = 'Tom@Jerry.com';
// not good format of criteria
if (Days_Validator::check($age, array('int'=>array('max'=>50, 'min'=>18))))
  echo 'You are full of strength!';
// good format of criteria
if (Days_Validator::check($age, 'int: {max: 50, min: 18}'))
  echo 'You are full of strength!';
// many criterias
if (Days_Validator::check($mail, 'str: {max: 70}, email, required'))
  echo 'Name correct!';
}}}

Tasks:
 * simplify a criteria format _(good if data passes as string `check($age, 'int: {max: 50, min: 18}')` or similar format)_

=== Event (issue #15) ===

[EnLibDaysEvent Days_Event] - an implementation of the Observer pattern. Helps join many components to one system without changes in any component.

Days library events:
{{{
class Days_User {
  public function login($username, $password) {
    Days_Event::run('user.login.before');
    // process loginning
    if (/* logged well */) {
      Days_Event::run('user.login.success');
      ...
    }
    else {
      Days_Event::run('user.login.fail');
      ...
    }
    Days_Event::run('user.login.after');
  }
...
}}}

Your application events are in the [EnLibDaysModel models] _(add the name of your application before an event name)_:
{{{
class Myapp_Model_Rss {
  public function import($path) {
    Days_Event::run('myapp.rss.import.before');
    // process loginning
    if (/* data loaded from RSS */) {
      Days_Event::run('myapp.rss.import.success');
      ...
    }
    else {
      Days_Event::run('myapp.rss.import.fail');
      ...
    }
    Days_Event::run('myapp.rss.import.after');
  }
}
}}}

Now, we have to add a forum with a user authorization to the site. We use events in the forum.
{{{
// general Days event
Days_Event::add('user.login.success', 'userSuccessLogged');
// function called on success logging
function userSuccessLogged() {
  echo 'You logged successfully on site!';
}
// your application event
Days_Event::add('myapp.rss.import.fail', 'rssNotLoaded');
// callback function
function rssNotLoaded() {
  echo 'RSS not loaded. Enter correct URL adress';
}
}}}

See also: [http://docs.kohanaphp.com/general/events Kohana events], [http://devzone.zend.com/article/4284-Observer-pattern-in-PHP Zend Observer].

=== Form ===

[EnLibDaysForm Days_Form] - process html forms. If all data is passed correctly - execute a form handler.