#summary Список изменений в версиях проекта.
#labels Lang-Ru
#sidebar Ru

== Список изменений в версии 1.1 ==

=== 1.1 beta3 ===

 * нет изменений

=== 1.1 beta2 ^(15 ноября 2009)^ ===

 * Создана структура приложения phpdays.org, оформлен внешний вид
 * Добавлен класс [RuLibDaysEvent Days_Event], реализующий паттерн Observer (Наблюдатель)
 * Добавлены модульные тесты для классов `Days_View_*` и [RuLibDaysEvent Days_Event]
 * r59 [RuLibDaysEngine Days_Engine] Удалено автоматическое преобразование данных в формат JSON для Ajax запросов
 * r193 Fix bug in Templum: throw exception if template contein php tags
 * r200 Change url from sf.net to googlecode.com
 * r247 Create [RuLibDaysToolAppGenerator Days_Tool_AppGenerator]. Change `@package` and `@subpackage` in all Days classes
 * r255 Add class [RuLibDaysRouter Days_Router]. Add methods "copy" and "rename" to [RuLibDaysDbTable Days_Db_Table]
 * r262, r275 Refactor [RuLibDaysView View] classes. Add empty helpers base
 * r263 Extend helper classes by [RuLibDaysHelperAbstract Days_Helper_Abstract]
 * r266 Fix #22: Extract [RuLibDaysException Days_Exception] from `Engine.php`
 * r267 Added methods [RuLibDaysResponse Days_Response]::getContent and [RuLibDaysResponse Days_Response]::setContent for comfort and control output of the engine
 * r268 Added method [RuLibDaysEvent Days_Event]:: get($event) for all subscribers of certain event
 * r282 Added first [RuLibDaysHelper Helpers]
 * r283 `[lib/Templum]` Create new Pages function
 * r284 `[lib/Templum]` Create new Collect block
 * r285 `[lib/Templum]` Add new tests in template
 * r288 Creating a branch for Issue #24
 * r290 `[apps/phpdays.org]` Change menu links
 * r291 `[apps/phpdays.org]` Rename service "dev" to "lab"

=== 1.1 beta1 ^(18 октября 2009)^ ===

 * r19-r20 Добавлена поддержка [http://templum.googlecode.com шаблонизатора Templum].
 * `apps/new` Fix css text-align (created by yui library).
 * Changes in apps/new: added jquery library, added yui css reset, changed index layout.
 * Fix bug in application "phpdays.org" in tag script.
 * Add Smarty plugin block for show block template by name.
 * Add application "phpdays.org" with static main page.

=== Архив версий ===

Выберите нужную версию фреймворка, чтобы просмотреть список изменений в нем.

 * [RuChangelog1_0 1.0]